---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 2"
date:   2020-09-15 12:38:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
<h1><b>HTML Tutorial Part 1</b></h1>

<h2><b>Introduction:</b></h2>

<p>Hello all! As promised and as stated from the previous blog, I will be starting a series of blogs for HTML. Don't worry, I will diversify the content by not posting more than two HTML tutorials in a row.  The process of learning HTML is to understand the concepts and fundamentals of how a website operates. Therefore, I'll be explaning how to use each element/tag with their respective attributes briefly. This is not an in-depth guide of explaning each ekement/tag specifically. The use of these elements/tags are more subjective than objective, but it still requires the knowledge of the user knowing when to use it properly. IF you wish to understand each tag more in-de[th, I suggest looking at other guides after viewing this guide once you acquire the basic knowledge of HTML.  </p>

<h2><b>Requirements:</b></h2>
<ul>
<li>Visual Studio Code (recommended) or any source-code editor
<br><a href="https://code.visualstudio.com/download"> https://code.visualstudio.com/download</a> </li>
</ul>
<h2><b>The Basic Structure of HTML</b></h2>

<p> Before we go over the most basic structure of how a HTML webpage would look like, I would like to introduce some HTML tags that you'll most likely be using for your webpage. When creating a tag, there will be some tags that will require a closing tag which will indicate the end of a tag. You will learn more about how to create and use these tags below.
</p>
<p> The first tag I would like to introduce is the &lt;p&gt; tag. The &lt;p&gt; tag defines the text contained within the element is a paragraph. This allows the browser to identify which line(s) of text is a paragrah and incorporate the proper format and spacing to it. Keep in mind, the &lt;p&gt; tag requires a closing tag to allow the browser to identify the end of a paragraph. The closing tag is almost the same as the opening tag, but with a &quot;/&quot; in front of the p. Below is an example of how a &lt;p&gt; is being used.</p>
<code> &lt;p&gt; This is an example of a paragraph &lt;/p&gt;
</code>
<br>
If you were to type it in your source-code editor, it will display the following:<br>
<br>
<code><p> This is an example of a paragraph </p></code>
<br>
<br>
<p> The next tag I would be going over is the &lt;h1&gt;, &lt;h2&gt;, &lt;h3&gt;, and etc. I like to call these group of tags header tags. These tags define which texts are the main and sub headers. Also, using the header tag will require an opening and closing tag. The &lt;h1&gt; tag is the main header of the webpage and typically, you would use only one &lt;h1&gt; tag per webpage. As you descend through the numbers, the headers will become sub headers of one another. When practicing the use of headers on your webpage, <strong>DO NOT</strong> skip through the hierarchy of headers i.e. start with the &lt;h1&gt; and go down the hierarchy. Do not skip headers.  You can have multiple  &lt;h2&gt;, &lt;h3&gt;, and etc., if and only if the topic or content are relevant. An example can be show below:</p>
<code>&lt;h1&gt;this is the main header &lt;/h1&gt; <br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&lt;h2&gt;this is the sub header for h1&lt;/h2&gt;<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&lt;h3&gt;this is the sub header for h2&lt;/h3&gt;<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&lt;h2&gt;this is also the sub header for h1&lt;/h2&gt;<br>
</code>

The output:<br>
<code><h1>this is the main header </h1> <br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<h2>this is the sub header for h1</h2><br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<h3>this is the sub header for h2</h3><br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<h2>this is also the sub header for h1</h2><br>
</code>


