---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 3"
date:   2020-09-22 2:25:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
<h1><b>Setting Up a Minecraft Server on the Raspberry Pi Tutorial</b></h1>

<h2><b>Introduction:</b></h2>
<p>Hello everyone! I am back here with another tutorial to show you all how to host your own Minecraft Server using a Raspberry Pi. Before we start, I would like to throw in some background information and why you should go through the trouble of setting up a Minecraft Server through your device. Minecraft is a sandbox game dveloped by Mojang Studios where users can purchase an account and experience a virtual world never seen before. Players can use their imagination to enhance their adventure by building, crafting, and gathering materials that are located throughout the world. Players can collaborate with each online through free public servers. Alternatively, players can rent a private server through a third party host. These prices can vary depending on the third party host, but it is to be estimated that players pay a $10 monthly fee to rent a private server. Renting a private server may not seem to be expensive at first; however, through months or even years of playing Minecraft, players may end up paying at least $120 per year. In addition, when players decide to stop paying for their private servers, all their hard work and progression through the game will be lost. The main purpose of this tutorial is to show players how they can set up their own private server using a Raspberry Pi. In doing so, they'll save so much money in the long run.</p>

<p>This tutorial is specifically targeted towards people who are planning to purchase the Raspberry Pi with the Monitor attached or use a HDMI cable to connect the Raspberry Pi to a monitor. I am not going over how to SSH into a headless Raspberry Pi as the tutorial will end up being too long. For those who want to run a Minecraft server without planning to use some kind of monitor, then click <a href="https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/remote-access/ssh/">here</a> to see how to SSH into a headless Raspberry Pi.</p>
<h2><b>Requirements:</b></h2>
<ul>
    <li>Raspberry Pi 3 or 4 with or without monitor (at least 2GB of RAM)</li>
    <li>Computer</li>
    <li>Any Monitor (Highly Recommended)</li>
    <li>HDMI cable</li>
    <li>Keyboard (Highly Recommended)</li>
    <li>Mouse (Highly Recommended)</li>
    <li>Vim <a href="https://www.fprintf.net/vimCheatSheet.html" alt="How to use Vim">Vim Tutorial</a></li>
    <li>Nano <a href="https://www.nano-editor.org/dist/latest/cheatsheet.html" alt="How to use Nano">Nano Tutorial</a></li>
    <li>Minecraft (Java Edition)</li>
</ul>

<h2><b>Pre-Instructions:</b></h2>

1. Before we start, we will need to run the two commands to ensure your Raspberry Pi is up to date.
<code>sudo apt-get update</code><br>
<code>sudo apt-get upgrade</code>

2. (Optional) Before we proceed to creating a minecraft server it is highly recommended to enable SSH into your Raspberry Pi to make the entire process easier. To do so, simply turn on the Raspberry Pi and open the terminal window. From there, you can type: <br>
<code>sudo systemctl enable ssh</code><br>
<code>sudo systemctl start ssh</code><br>
Alternatively, you can navigate to the Application Menu &gt; Preference &gt; Raspberry Pi Configuration &gt; Interface &gt; toggle on SSH.
<strong>NOTE: </strong>If the Raspberry Pi Configuration does not appear under the Preference menu, then you need to type:
<code>sudo apt-get install rc-gui</code><br>
After running this command, the option to open the Raspberry Pi Configuration should appear under the Preference menu. Now, you would want to check the IP of your Raspberry Pi so you can SSH into it. In the terminal, type this command:<br>
<code>ifconfig</config><br>
This will display your IP address. Once you obtain the IP address, type this command:<br>
<code>ssh pi@&lt;IP&gt;</code> <br>
This will prompt you to enter your username and password. For the Raspberry Pi, the default username and password is &quot;pi&quot; and &quot;raspberry&quot;, respectively.

3. Before we can even create a Minecraft Server, we need to create a static IP address for the Raspberry Pi. To do so, you can either access the terminal in your Raspberry Pi or SSH into it with your computer. You need to run the command: <br>
<code>ifconfig</config><br>
to obtain your IP address and the also run the command: <br>
<code>sudo route -n</code><br>
to obtain the IP of your Gateway.

4. Next you may use the text editor nano or vim to write the file. Nano should be preinstalled onto your Raspberry Pi. If you want to use vim, you will need to install it first by simply running the command:<br>
<code>sudo apt-get install vim</code><br>
Next, we will be editting the dhcpcd.conf file to set up your static IP address. Run the command:<br>
<code>sudo &lt;TEXT_EDITOR&gt; /etc/dhcpcd.conf</code><br>
In the file please add the following below:<br>
<br><br>

interface &lt;Whatever_Your_Internet_Adapter&gt;<br>
static ip_address=&lt;YOUR_CUSTOM_IP&gt;<br>
static routers=&lt;GATEWAY_IP&gt;<br>
static domain_name_servers=8.8.8.8 8.8.4.4<br>
<br> <br>

<strong>NOTE: </strong>When enter your custom IP address, you can only change the last octet of your IP address. To clarify any confusion, your internet adapter can be eth0, wlan0, or etc. You can locate which adapter your are using when you run the command: <br>
<code>ifconfig</code><br>
After you successfully edit the file, type the command:<br>
<code>reboot</code><br>
to restart your Raspberry Pi.<br>
Congratulations! You have created a static IP address for your Raspberry Pi.

<h2><b>Instructions:</b></h2>

1. Running a Minecraft Server will take up a lot of RAM. We need to make sure your Raspberry Pi will have enough RAM to allocate when hosting a server. To ensure that, go to your terminal and type:<br>
<code>sudo raspi-config</code><br>
This command will bring you a GUI interface. Navigate to Advanced Settings &gt; Memory Split. Depending on how much RAM your Raspberry Pi has, you can enter 8 if you have 2GB of RAM or 16 if you have 4GB of RAM.

2. Because we're going to be hosting a Minecraft Server (Java Edition), we would need the Java Development Kit. Run the command:<br>
<code>sudo apt-get install deafult-jdk</code><br>

3. We would need to make a directory to store all of server data into. Simply run this command:<br>
<code>mkdir /home/pi/minecraft</code>

4. Next we would have to download the build tools to help us create our server. We'll be using the tools provided to us from Spigot. Run the command:<br>
<code>wget https://hub.spigotmc.org/jenkins/job/BuildTools/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/target/BuildTools.jar</code><br>

5. Now let's move into our Minecraft directory to extract our tools in. Run the command:<br>
<code>cd /home/pi/minecraft</code><br>
Next we will need to extract the appropriate tools to create our Minecraft Server. Run the command: <br>
<code> java -Xmx1024M -jar BuildTools.jar --rev latest</code><br>
Alternatively, you can go to the <a href="https://www.spigotmc.org/wiki/buildtools/#latest" alt="Spigot Minecrafter Builder tools Version List">Spigot Page</a> to extract previous patches of Minecraft that you prefer. The extraction and download will take quite a bit of time.

6. Because of legal purposes, you will need to &quot;sign&quot; off the end-user license agreement before starting your Minecraft Server. To do that, we would use a text editor (vim or nano) to set the value of eula to true. Run the command:<br>
<code>&lt;TEXT_EDITOR&gt; eula.txt</code><br>
Change the value of the eula from false to true.

7. To start your Minecraft Server simply run this command:<br>
<code>java -Xms512M -Xmx1008M -jar /home/pi/minecraft/spigot-VERSION.jar nogui</code><br>
where VERSION is a placeholder to what patch you decided to download from the <a href="https://www.spigotmc.org/wiki/buildtools/#latest" alt="Spigot Minecrafter Builder tools Version List">Spigot Webpage</a>. For demonstraction purposes, if you downloaded the most recent patch as of when this blog was posted which was 1.16.3. You would type: <br>
<code>java -Xms512M -Xmx1008M -jar /home/pi/minecraft/spigot-1.16.3.jar nogui</code><br>
After typing this command, the server will take a while to set up.

8. Congratulations you have set up your Minecraft Server! To connect to it, simply just launch the game and enter your static IP address under the Multiplayer section. Unfortunately, this minecrafter server can be played locally; however, if you decide to enable port forwarding from your router, you will be able to host the server online. Here's a <a href="https://portforward.com/minecraft/" alt="Minecraft Port Fowarding Guide">guide</a> on how to port forward Minecraft.

<h2><b>Known Issues</b></h2>
<p>The only known issues I have encounter when is when my Raspberry Pi cannot allocate enough RAM to host the server. Check how much RAM your Raspberry Pi has by running this command:<br>
<code>free -h</code><br>
 If this ever becomes an issue, run the command:<br>
 <strong>NOTE:</strong> Running the first command below will take quite a while. So please be patient!<br>
<code>dd if=/dev/zero bs=1 of=file.bin count=100000000</code><br>
<code>sudo chown root file.bin</code><br>
<code>sudo chmod 600 file.bin</code><br>
<code>sudo swapon file.bin</code><br>
<code>free -h</code><br>
As you can see now your SWAP memory should have increased. Keep in mind, you will need to run this command everytime you restart or shutdown your Raspberry Pi.
</p>

