---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 1"
date:   2020-09-09 20:28:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
<h1><b>Docker Setup Tutorial</b></h1>
<br>
<h2><b>Introduction:</b></h2>
<p>I have quite some experience with docker from the previous years and noticed some people having trouble starting setting up their containers without a proper guide. To prepare everyone for the upcoming lab we have to do for Professor Lisa's COMP 480 class, I figured it would be in everyone's best interest to do a tutorial of installing docker, creating containers, and installing ubuntu into the docker container. This tutorial is primarily for Windows Users, but I will provide the installation link for MAC OS and the instructions should be really similar or the same. Keep in mind, this blog post was done before the class that Professor Lisa has posted specifics for using/running docker so you might have to change up a few commands to accomodate for her requirements. This tutorial is meant to be used as a reference to help students get an idea of how to configure/setup docker. Therefore, minor adjustments may be needed. I will be updating this guide if needed to adjust for minor changes; however, if major changes are needed, then this guide will be a standalone guide to how to setup your own container for your own luxury and/or interest. Also, for the next few blogs, I'm thinking about starting a series about html. To ensure topic diversity, I will not be posting blogs about html no more than twice in a row. I haven't really decided yet, but it's still a thought in progress. Without further a do, let's begin!</p>
<h2><b>Requirements:</b></h2>
<ul>
<li>Windows 10 or MAC 0S computer</li>
<li>Latest version of Docker</li>
<ul>
<li>Windows:<a href="https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/install/">https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/install/</a></li>
<li>MAC OS: <a href="https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install/">https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install/</a></li>
</ul>
<li>Internet Connection</li>
</ul>
<h2><b>Instructions:</b></h2>

1. Once you installed Docker onto your machine, let's check if the program has been successfully installed by running these commands:
<br>
<code>docker info</code>
<br>
<code>docker --version</code>

2. Next we need to pull an  image from the Docker Hub and install it locally by running the following command:
<br>
<code>docker pull &lt;IMAGE&gt;</code>
<br>
In this case, I prefer to use Ubuntu so I am going to pull that image from the hub by running the command:
<br>
<code>docker pull Ubuntu</code>
<br>
Keep in mind that you can pull any type of image from the Docker Hub, assuming Docker supports it.
<br>
<b>Note:</b> I highly recommend checking if the image has been sucessfully installed locally by running this command:
<br>
<code>docker image ls -a</code>
<br>
This will display what kind and how many images you have downloaded onto your docker. If pulled successfully, it'll show that ubuntu or whatever image you installed listed on your terminal.

3. Once the image has been sucessfully installed onto Docker, we will need to create a container for our environment. Simply run this command:
<br>
<code>docker container run -it --name &lt;CONTAINER_NAME&gt; ubuntu bash</code>
<br>
This command will allow you to create and name your container. This will login you in as root since you haven't created a user with administrative access yet.

4. Let's make sure all of our packages are up to date by running the command:
<br>
<code>apt-get update</code>
<br>
This command will download packages from various sources to ensure that all assets are at current standards.

5. Next, to keep your environment secured and from being exploited, I HIGHLY recommend installing sudo onto docker to practice security protocol. Run the following command:
<br>
<code>apt-get install sudo</code>
<br>
Once sudo is installed, you will be able to assign certain users root privileges for your container as well as maintaining your system's security.

6. Let's create a user for yourself on your own container. To do so, run the following command:
<br>
<code>adduser &lt;USERNAME&gt;</code>
<br>
Once you input this command, docker will ask you to create a password as well as other miscellaneous information about yourself.

7. After you created a user for yourself, we need to assign root privileges to it. It wouldn't make sense or seem right if you do not have root/adiministrative privileges to your own container. Run the following command:
<br>
<code>usermod -aG sudo &lt;USERNAME&gt;</code>
<br>
Congratulations! You have created a root user for yourself. Now let's log onto that container using your credentials.

8. To login into your container, we first need to start your container. To check whether your container is running or not running, run the following command:
<br>
<code>docker ps -a</code>
<br>
The command will list all the containers on your docker and will tell you whether it is running or not. Because we just created your container, your container shouldn't be running. Run the following command to start your container:
<br>
<code>docker start &lt;CONTAINER_NAME&gt;</code>
<br>
Once the container has been started, let's log into it by running this command:
<br>
<code>docker exec -it &lt;CONTAINER_NAME&gt; login</code>
<br>
Running this command will prompt the user to enter his/her username and password.
Congratulations once again! You have logged onto your container using your credentials.
<br>
<br>
<h2><b>Additional Notes:</b></h2>
<ul>
<li>Everytime you open docker, exit docker, or exit your container, you will need to run the command: 
<br>
<code>docker start &lt;CONTAINER_NAME&gt;</code>
<br>
to start your container again before you log into it.
</li>
<li>Whenever you need to exit your container for whatever reason, simply just run the following command:
<br>
<code>exit</code>
</li>
<li>If for whatever reason your root user account was deleted or you want to give an additional user root privileges, simply run the command:
<br>
<code>docker exec -it &lt;CONTAINER_NAME&gt; bash</code>
<br>
and repeat steps 6-7 depending whether the new user has been created or not. 
</li>
</ul>
