---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 9"
date:   2020-11-04 12:01:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
<h1>How to create a Network Monitoring Tool on your Raspberry Pi </h1>

<h2><b>Introduction</b></h2>
<p>For the past few weeks, I've been talking about WEP vs WPA, WEP/WPA attacks, and a solution to deter attackers from infiltrating your network to steal your private data via Security Onion. After writing the blog about installing Security Onion onto your system, I thought about how much resources Security Onion can take up onto a user's device. Security Onion prerequirements is to allocate 20GB of storage space and 4GB of RAM to the VM for the installation. However, not everyone understands how essential your devices resources are and not everyone has a competent device that can afford to allocate those resources. Obviously, buying a new competent device or machine to just install Security Onion to protect/monitor your network is not practical because these machines or devices can cost upwards to about $800 or more. However, a small investment of $100 into a Raspberry Pi is a small price to pay to protect your network.
</p>
<p>What are we going to do with a $100 Raspberry Pi you ask? Well, when purchasing a Raspberyy Pi from Amazon or from the distributor's site, it comes with a 32GB micro SD card and about 4 or 8 GB of RAM, depending on how much RAM you choose. Obviously, it will cost an upwards to $120 if you decide the purchase 8 GB of RAM instead of the standard 4 GB of RAM. Whatever specs you decide will not matter; therefore, pick whichever Raspberry Pi you have your eye on as long as you have 4 GB of storage. For this tutorial, we will not be installing Security Onion on your Raspberry Pi because it would require you to wipe out the Raspberry Pi's operating system and installing it with the Security Onion operating system. In addition, the Security Onion's operating system will take up about two thirds of your micro SD card's storage, which is not practical. Instead, we would be installing NagiosPi onto your Raspberry Pi. Nagios is a low storage monitoring tool that you can install onto your Raspberry Pi. A network monitoring tool allows the user to see the traffic onto your network and allows the management of devices onto your network. It notifies the user if there is anything wrong on either the device or the network itself. The open-source software should take about ~ 4 GB of your micro SD card, which makes it optimal to run on your Raspberry Pi. This tutorial will guide you in the installation and basic configuration of NagiosPi. Using NagiosPi is a double-edge sword, meaning that users will find it easy to monitor the network and configure the devices on it. However, NagiosPi provides a vast number of options that users may enable/disable. Because of the vast number of options, users may end up enabling too many options to the point where it would do more damage than good. Therefore, it is imperative that new users should read up a guide or documentation(s) about NagiosPi before implementing too many system checks.
</p>
<h2><b>Requirements</b></h2>
<ul>
    <li>Raspberry Pi</li>
        <ul>
            <li>4GB of storage space</li>
            <li>4GB RAM</li>
        </ul>
    <li>Wifi or Ethernet Cable (recommended)</li>
    <li>NagiosPi image</li>
    <li>Laptop or Computer</li>
    <li>A Network</li>
</ul>
<h2><b>Instructions</b></h2>
<ul>
    <li>Before we start, remove the SD card from your Raspberry Pi (if not inserted already) and insert it into your computer/laptop. From there, download the NagiosPi image <a href="https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/0B6d-JruA2JInbW5NSkZqZ3NLTTg">here</a>.</li><br>
    <li>Once you downloaded the NagiosPi image onto the SD card, insert it to your Raspberry Pi. Navigate to the Raspi-config by running this command on the terminal:<br>
    <code>sudo raspi-config</code><br>
    From there, it will bring up the GUI interface and select &quot;Expand Filesystem&quot;. This configuration will allow the Raspberry Pi to utilize the storage available on your SD card</li><br>
    <li>Since we already installed NagiosPi onto the SD card, we can move on to the configuration settings to select your preferences. To do that, open up a web browser and enter the IP of your local host into the address bar. If you do know what the IP of your localhost is, then open up the terminal and type the command: <br>
   <code>if config</code><br>
    Your IP address should be in this format: 192.168.0.xx where xx is the host part and it varies between users. Unless you configured a static address on your Raspberry Pi, the host part of your IP address will change each time you restart/turn on your device, assuming you are using a DHCP router.</li><br>
    <li>Upon entering the local host IP into your address bar, it should bring up the Nagios webpage and display 5 hyperlinks. These hyperlinks are Nagios, Nconf, NagVis, PHPMyAdmin, and RaspControl.</li><br>
    <li>Selecting any one of the hyperlinks will require the user to sign in using their Raspberry Pi credentials. Assuming the user hasn't changed the default username and password, it is &quot;pi&quot; and &quot;raspberry&quot;, respectively. </li>
    <li>To add additional features to monitor devices on your network, we would need to configure some settings and apply it. Click on the Nconf &gt; Add Host (left column) &gt; add the device hostname, IP address, and the name you want to associate the device with &gt; click Submit. </li><br>
    <li>Go back to the mainpage and click on &quot;Services&quot;. It will display all the devices that are on your network and each entry is interactable. You can click on it and it will display information about the device. </li><br>
</ul>
<p> Congratulations! You have turned your Raspberry Pi into a network monitoring tool. Like I said before, do not go crazy and implement a crazy number of settings in the NagiosPi especially if you are unfamilar with it. Take it slow and learn what each option can do to your network's security, baby steps. Although monitoring your network is easy, there is a huge learning curve to utilize the full potential of NagiosPi to protect your network along with other essentials. Here is a <a href="https://www.edureka.co/blog/nagios-tutorial/">documentation</a> I found that may help you to flaten the learning curbe. I hope it helps and wish you all the best of luck!</p>