---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 10"
date:   2020-11-11 12:01:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
<h1><b>Turning your Raspberry Pi into a Webserver</b></h1>

<h2><b>Introduction</b></h2>
<p>Hello everyone! For the past few weeks, I went through the purpose of having some sort of network security to deter intruders from invading your network and stealing your private data. In the previous blogs, I stated the importance of operating on a secured network and how to add additional layers of security to fortify it. I hope all of you who are reading this blog has followed my instructions and done so already because today, we are going to use the Raspberry Pi to host your own Webserver via your network. If I didn't go over the purpose of network security, then an intruder can easily infiltrate your network and deface your website easily.</p>
<p> Setting up your own  webserver has quite a few benefits. For one, you will be able to have your very own website hosted from your Raspberry Pi. Throughout the many weeks, months, or years of development, you will learn how to add additional features onto your website as well as content to gain experience as a web developer or as a hobby. Regardless, implementing a web server onto your Raspberry Pi will be beneficial in some way. In addition, hosting a web server via Raspberry Pi is the most economical way to budget your spending if you wish to operate a web server and enhance your web development skills. Normally, it would expensive to purchase a subscription from a third-party to host your web server overtime. However, with a small investment of $100, you can save yourself money and the Raspberry Pi itself has multiple uses. Not to mention, the amount of resource consumption the Raspberry Pi takes is extremely low; therefore, making it affordable to have your Raspberry Pi on 24/7. For this tutorial, we will using Apache to set up our web server. For those who are not familiar with Apache, it is extremely easy to set up your own web page. It is a few simple steps and boom, you're golden.
</p>

<h2><b>Requirements</b></h2>
<ul>
    <li><a href="https://www.amazon.com/CanaKit-Raspberry-4GB-Starter-Kit/dp/B07V5JTMV9/ref=sr_1_2?dchild=1&keywords=raspberry+pi&qid=1605249098&sr=8-2">Raspberry Pi</a></li>
    <li>Ethernet (recommended) or WiFi</li>
    <li><a href="https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/configuration/wireless/headless.md">Enabled SSH and Wireless Networking</a> (optional)</li>
    <li><a href="https://www.linux.com/training-tutorials/vim-101-beginners-guide-vim/">Vim </a>(recommended)</li>
    <li><a href="https://pimylifeup.com/raspberry-pi-static-ip-address/">Static IP enabled on Raspberry Pi</a> (recommended)</li>
</ul>

<h2><b>Instructions</b></h2>
<ol>
    <li>Before we do anything on your Raspberry Pi, let's make sure all you have the latest up-to-date packages on your device. Run these commands:<br>
    <code>sudo apt-get update</code><br>
    <code> sudo apt-get upgrade</code></li><br>
    <li>With all of our latest packages that are all up-to-date, let's install vim, a text editor, onto our system. You may omit this step if you decide to use nano or some other text editor as this is optional. Run the command:<br>
    <code>sudo apt-get install vim</code><li><br>
    <li> Once the text editor and the packages have been updated, we would need to install all the packages and dependencies for Apache. To do so, run the command:<br>
    <code>sudo apt-get install apache2 -y</code><br>
    The -y flag skips the prompt for the user to type yes or no when trying to install the Apache package for those who want to know
    </li><br>
    <li>Once your Raspberry Pi has finished downloading all of the Apache2 packages, we would need to change permissions to your index.html, which is your default webpage, so you will be able to edit it. Your index.html page should be located in /var/www/html/index.html. Navigate to the directory by runnign this command:<br>
    <code>cd /var/www/html </code><br>
    Notice when you run the command to edit the index.html file<br>
    <code>vim index.html</code><br>
    You may be unable to edit/save the changes you made into the file. If so, then run the commmand:<br>
    <code>sudo chown pi: index.html</code><br>
    to allow pi (you) to make changes in the index.html file.</li><br>
    <li>Now with everything all set up, you need to ensure apache is running on your device. Run this command to get the status of the server:<br>
    <code>service apache2 status</code><br>
    If Apache is not running on your device you can run the process by running this command in your terminal:<br>
    <code>sudo service apache2 start</code><br>
    If for some reason you decide that you do not want your website to be online, you can type this command to disable your website:<br>
    <code>sudo service apache2 stop</code><br>
    For more details about the Apache process, you can click <a href="https://linuxize.com/post/start-stop-restart-apache/#:~:text=start%20%3A%20Starts%20the%20Apache%20service,Gracefully%20restarts%20the%20Apache%20service.">here</a>.</li>
    </ol>
<h2><b>Conclusion</b></h2>
<p>As you can see, setting up a web server on your Raspberry Pi is as easy as 1, 2, and 3. However to utilize the web server to the fullest, you must learn HTML, CSS, Javascript, and/or PHP. Otherwise, you'll be left with the default Apache 2 page or maybe nonformatted page. There's a huge learning curve when it comes to learning these languages so take your time and read up on some documentation or watch some online tutorials about it. Overtime, you will develop the web development skills you will need to create a proper functioning website. In other words, I almost forgot to mention to backup all your webpages just in case if there are any issues. Assuming you followed security protocols to protect your network, it is always better to be safe than to be sorry to maintain the integrity of your website.
</p>