---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 8"
date:   2020-10-27 12:01:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
<h1><b>Security Onion Installation via VM</b></h1>

<h2><b>Introduction</b></h2>
<p>The last few weeks I talked about the pros/cons of using WEP/WPA/WPA2/WPA3 and how to prevent WEP/WPA attacks. As you all recalled, all of you guys know that  security is mainly about redundancy. The more layers you add, the harder it is for attackers to inflitrate into your system, stealing your data. Adding too many layers to your network will deter attackers from targeting your network and move onto an easier target as there are too many layers of security to peel. Speaking about layers, the Security Onion Operating System is a Linux distrubution that is based on Ubuntu and it provides users more than enough layers for users to utilize to prevent a breach (see what I did there). Installing Security Onion onto your machine will provide you with three main functionality of keeping your network secured which are: Intrusion detection, security monitoring, and logs. Seccurity Onion will sniff out any packets, both foreign and domestic, that is trying to either access onto your network or retrieve sensitive data from leaving your network. It will then capture those packets and save it in a pcap file. From there, it will notify you of the breach and log the data into its archive for reference. From there, you can take the necessary measures to access Security Onion's tools to monitor your network to ensure the integrity of your network is not compromised. Overall, Security Onion has a steep learning curve for beginners to use it to their full potential, but the community and developers provide great documentations to assist all kinds of users if they to reference the information. </p>
<h2><b>Requirements</b></h2>
<ul>
    <li>A Computer (recommend 50GB of space)</li>
    <li><a href="https://www.oracle.com/virtualization/technologies/vm/downloads/virtualbox-downloads.html">Oracle VM Virtual Box</a></li>
        <ul>
            <li>20GB of Space</li>
            <li>4GB RAM</li>
        </ul>
    <li>Security Onion ISO File</li>
</ul>
<h2><b>Instructions</b></h2>
<ol>
    <li>Load up the ISO file on your Oracle VM and fire it up. Allocate the right amount of space and RAM to the instance (see requirements).</li>
    <li>Click on &quot;Install Security Onion&quot; that is located on your VM's desktop and it will prompt you to enter your preferences before installing Security Onion.</li>
    <li>When you hit the &quot;Installation type &quot;select &quot;Erase disk and install Security Onion&quot;. Don't worry since we're using a VM, this option will only effect the instance, not your entire physical device.</li>
    <li>Choose your keyboard preferences, and it will then prompt you to create your username and password. <strong>DO NOT FORGET</strong> as you will them to login and access administrator privileges.</li>
    <li>Reboot when necessary, Once you reboot, you will need to go to your VM toolbar and go to Devices &gt; Optical Drives &gt; Remove disk from virtual drive. It will then prompt you to &quot;Force the unmount&quot;. Don't worry about getting a bunch of error message, the system will them prompt you to press &quot;enter&quot; after you unmount the ISO file.</li>
    <li>Open the terminal and type the command:<br>
    <code>sudo soup</code></li>
    <li>After it the system finish updating its files. Press &quot;enter&quot; to reboot. From there, go to back to your VM's toolbar, go to Devices &gt; Insert Guest Additions CD image. It will ask whether you would like to run the &quot;VBox_GAs_5.2.18&quot;, click on run. After the installation, you may remove the CD image by going to Devices &gt; Optical Drives &gt; Remove disk from virtual drive. It will then prompt you to &quot;Force the unmount&quot;.</li>
    <li>Click on the Setup icon on your VM's desktop. After a few brief self-explanatory pop-ups, it will ask if you like to configure your /etc/network/interfaces. Click on &quot;Yes, configure /etc/network/interfaces!&quot;</li>
    <li>From there, it will give you the option to choose between static addressing or DHCP. Most likely, the VM's network is defaulted to NAT; therefore, you can use DHCP so click on DHCP.</li>
    <li>Reboot. Click on the Setup icon once again. It will then ask whether you want to reconfigure your /etc/network/interfaces. Since we just configured it, skip the process. After a few self-explanatory prompts, it will ask whether you would like to use Evaluation Mode or Production Mode. The prompt will explain and list the differences between the two. Personally since we're learning how to use Security Onion, it is best to click on Evaluation Mode.</li>
    <li>Set up your username and password when you use the utilities Security Onion has to offer. <strong>DO NOT FORGET YOUR CREDENTIALS<strong></li>
    <li>Congratulations! Once you see the utilities appear on your VM's desktop, you have successfully installed Security Onion and its utilities! Now go have fun learning how to proteect your network.</li>
</ol>