---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 6"
date:   2020-10-14 12:01:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
<h1><b>WEP/WPA Attacks</b></h1>

<h2><b>What is a WEP/WPA Attack?</b></h2>

<p> In short, a WEP/WPA attack is when an attacker uses a wireless sniffer (e.g. wireshark) and waits for the wireless user to authenticate through a PSK (Pre-Shared Key). The attacker can eavesdrop and obtain the encrypted password through the packets being sent back and forth by the four-way handshake. From there, the attacker can easily bruteforce and obtain the PSK for them to access the network.
</p>

<h2><b>Tiers of Security</b></h2>

<h3><b>WEP</b></h3>
<p>The wired equivalent privacy or WEP was a security protocol that was ratified for IEEE 802.11 wireless networks in 1999. It was known to be the WORST security protocol for wireless network. The first version of the WEP protocol which consist of 10 hexadecimal characters which still made wireless networks vulnerable to bruteforce attacks. The earliest versions of WEP were heavily restricted by the United States government because at that time, any encryption algorithm or software were considered "dangerous weapons". However, once the ban of exporting encryption algorithms/softwares were lifted, newer versions such as the 128-bit and 256-bit encryptions were quickly released. However, despite the manufacturers best efforts, WEP was still vulnerable to bruteforce attacks. It required a key of 10 or 26 characters, depending on which version you are using. The hexadecimal key will then be concatenated with a 24-bit initialization vector to form a RC4 which will then form a keystream. The keystream will be XOR with the plaintext password to get cipher text. In addition, the security protocol only accepts hexadecimal characters which are numbers between 0 and 9, and letters between A to F, capitalized. This means that the number of password combinations to bruteforce through a WEP security protocol can range from 2^64, 2^128, or 2^256, depending on which WEP version the wireless network is using as their security protocol. In 2003, the new security protocol, WPA, succeeded WEP and in 2004, the Wi-Fi Alliance disencourages wireless networks using the WEP security protocol.
</p>

<h3><b>WPA</b></h3>
<p>The WPA was a significant improvement to WiFi security protocols than its predecessor, the WEP. The WEP became the new standards for IEEE 802.11i wirelesss protocol networks in the early 2000's. One of the major improvements was the introduction and implementations of Temporal Key Integrity Protocol or TKIP. The Temporal Key Integrity Protocol purpose was to replace the WEP's weak encryptions and maintain the relevance of the legacy hardware. Unlike how the WEP encrypts its keys, the TKIP mixes the root key and the initialization vector before going through the RC4 cipher. In addition, TKIP improves security by implementing a 64-bit Message Integrity Check, which is when it resets/reinitialized the packet sequence number everytime a temporal key is being used, and rejects nonsequencial packets. This implementation will prevent attacks from highjacking, altering, and resending packets to the network. WPA was intended to replace the WEP in 1999 through software patches on wireless network interface cards; however, it cannot be implemented on Pre-2003 access points because the design were too extensive for those access points to be upgraded to the new WPA standard. WPA did not remain secure for long. In 2008, a two-man team who goes by the name of Martin Beck and Erik Tews managed to exploit the TKIP implemented in the 802.11e wireless network standard by using the concept of the Man in the Middle attack. This attack was later revised and published by Toshihiro Ohigashi and Masakatu Morii in 2009 to exploit not only 802.11e wireless networks, but also all WPA standard wireless networks in as little as 15 minutes. Despite some wireless networks were still using the WPA security protocol in the later years, the WPA served as the main security protocol for about a year from its released before being replaced by WPA2.</p>

<h3><b>WPA2</b></h3>
<p>Although the WPA was a major improvement than the WEP, the security protocols implemented in WPA were not enough to make 802.11i wireless networks secured. The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, or the IEEE, had known the vulnerabilities of the WPA. Instead of scrapping the WPA, the Wi-Fi Alliance decided to implement the entire extension of security protocols and amendments onto the 802.11i wireless network standard which was now known as the WPA2. The WPA2 was ratified and replaced WPA as the new standard protocol in 2004. The key difference between the WPA and WPA2 is that the WPA2 replace TKIP with the Advanced Encryption Standard Counter Mode Cipher Chaining Message Authenticaetion Code Protocol or AES-CCMP for short. This new security protocol became mandatory for 802.11i wireless networks in 2006 and was not vulnerable to the Man in the Middle attack compared to its predecessor. However, in 2017, KRACK attacks were prominent and known to break into WPA2 wireless networks because it is a replay attack that keeps on retrieving packets from the wireless network in which the attacker will be able to repiece it altogether to regain access. The security of the WPA2 protocol only lasted for about 14 years before having it being replaced with a new security protocol.
</p>
<h3><b>WPA3</b></h3>
<p>After the KRACK attacks went public, the Wi-Fi alliance decide to use WPA3 as the new standard security protocol for 802.11i wireless networks on January 2018. The WPA3 contains many security features and improvements over its predecessor, the WPA2. It replaced the pre-sharing keys implemented in WPA2 with simultaneous authentication of equals or SAE. To keep it short, SAE makes KRACK and Cryptographic attacks less effective and harder to execute. WPA3 certification allow wireless networks to host NFC or Near-Field Commmunications which is the concept of connecting to a network by tapping your device on a short range access point. It may seem contradictary to a "secured" network, but attacks cannot remotely attack NFC networks. This method enables NFC for seured and efficient access to a network. The WPA3 has another security implementation called the Perfect Forward Secrecy. The Perfect Forward Secrecy prevent attackers from decrypting keystream they had captured earlier because the data will be useless since the system or network would have changed the key in a time sensitve matter. Despite, the new security implementations implemented in WPA3, there was a major vulnerability within the WPA3 security protocol. Attackers exploited the flaws within the WPA3 security protocols and execute downgrade attacks, bruteforce atttacks, and various other attacks which were known as the Dragonblood attack.
</p>