---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 7"
date:   2020-10-21 12:01:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
<h1><b>Preventing WEP/WPA Attacks</b></h1>

<h2>Introduction</h2>
<p>From the previous blog, you all know the pros/cons of using WEP, WPA, WPA2, and WPA3. Because these types of securities comes in tiers, you should always opt for the best security tier you can get your hands on to protect your network, data, and privacy from intrusions. As of now, if you cannot afford or obtain WPA3 for IEEE 802.11i wirelesss protocol network, then the WPA2 would be sufficient. However as mentioned from the previous blog, WPA2 security protocol is vulnerable to KRACK attacks. Therefore, its always best to get a router that can support the latest security protocol that is being endorsed by the WiFi Alliance. In today's blog, we'll be going over how to prevent WEP/WPA Attacks, mostly preventing WPA attacks because no one should have a WEP security protocol for their wireless network. Having a WEP security protocol in your network is the same as having no type of security protecting it. Keep in mind, WPA2/WPA3 security protocols are designed to prolonged or delay instruders from breaking into your network. They're were not meant to be designed to prevent them from accessing your network, although it would be nice. This guide is going to teach all of you how to take additional measures to deter attackers from accessing your wireless network. A great analogy to this is a lock to a door. You can buy the best lock to protect what you're hiding behind that door. However, the lock can always be unlocked or broken. It may take longer for an intruder or thief to hacksaw or torch it open`, but in the end, the result is still the same. However, it is possible to deter the intruder by adding security cameras, gates, guard dogs, and etc. It'll be harder to break in, but not impossible. The same concept applies to preventing WEP/WPA attacks from occuring often. The point here is that if you add extra measures to make it harder for person to intrude, then most likely, the intruder would bypass and look for an easier target instead of wasting his/her time.
</p> 

<h2>Countermeasures</h2>
<ul>
    <li>Firewalls</li>
    <ul>
        <li><strong>ALWAYS</strong> use a Firewall</li>
        <li><strong>NEVER</strong> turn off your Firewall for whatever reason</li>
        <li>Adds an extra layer of security ontop of the already existing security protocols to your router</li>
    </ul>
    <li>Upgrade to the latest security protocol</li>
    <ul>
        <li>Advanced Encryption Algorithms</li>
        <li>State of the Art Security</li>
        <li>There is no better security</li>
        <li>Heavily Supported by Developers</li>
        <li>Worldwide Encryption</li>
        <li>Difficult to break into than its predecessors</li>
    </ul>
    <li>Use Strong Passwords and change Passwords Frequently</li>
    <ul>
        <li>Password should contain at least 16 or more characters long</li>
        <li>Mixture of all kinds of characters, these include but not limited to: lower-case letters, upper-case letters, special characters, alt-code characters, symbols, etc.</li>
        <li>Make sure the password is <strong>RANDOM</strong></li>
        <li>If unable to create a decent random password, use a random password generate: <a href="https://passwordsgenerator.net/">https://passwordsgenerator.net</a></li>
        <li>Change your credentials/passwords often (3/4 weeks, no more than 8 weeks)</li>
    </ul>
    <li>Virtual Private Network</li>
    <ul>
        <li>Highly Recommended to use a VPN when venturing on outside wireless networks whether it is secured or unsecured</li>
        <li>Attackers who try to steal your data will try to piggyback off the signal, the VPN will redirect that signal elsewhere </li>
        <li>Privacy Mode enabled</li>
        <li>Protects your devices from infecting your own home network via malware installation from compromised hotspots</li>
    </ul>
    <li>Limit Unnecessary Areas of Exposure</li>
    <ul>
        <li>Placing router in the center of your home or in a strategic location is key</li>
        <li>Ensure that your network's reach does not extend any further than your property</li>
        <li>Use accesss points to adjust or manipulate your network reach</li>
    </ul>
</ul>
<h2>Conclusion</h2>
<p>Following these countermeasures will deter attackers from accessing your network and stealing your private data and information. Sometimes, in the world of security, it is best to add extra layers of protection and redundancy to ensure that your privacy as well as your data does not get breached. Despite being taught that redundancies should be avoided to increase maximum efficiency, adding additional security redundancies to your network will make you less of a target. Always remember that attackers or thieves in general prefer to get in and get out as soon as possible without any hassle. The longer they're in the "dangerzone", the chances of them being detected or caught will increase exponentially especially when they do not know what kind of "reward" there is awaiting for them. It may seem like a hassle to you, taking on so much responsiblity, but in the end, it's way better than having your data or information stolen.
</p>