---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 0"
date:   2020-09-03 16:35:33 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

Introduction:
Before I start, I would like to thank Professor Smith for helping me resolving a few issues with setting up github with jekyll. I figured it would be in everyone's best interest for to write a tutorial for Microsoft Windows Users who are still struggling with setting up github with jekyll. 

Requirements:
A Github account

Latest version of Ruby
https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/installation/

Latest version of Git
https://git-scm.com/downloads

Latest version of Jekyll
https://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/

Latest version of Bundle
https://bundler.io/

Visual Studio Code (highly recommended)
https://code.visualstudio.com/download


Instructions:
IMPORTANT: Ensure all these requirements are installed onto your computer before proceeding or else complications may occur.

Note: When running the provided commands, ignore the double quotations unless you are told otherwise.

1. Access your github profile > click on repositories > create a new respository if you haven't done so already. I personally recommend naming youre respository USERNAME.github.io where the "USERNAME" is the username of your github account. Check off public and "add a README.txt". It is best practice to do this to avoid any unnecessary issues generating your website with jekyll.

2. Navigate to your repository settings (not account settings) by accessing your repository and clicking on the settings (cog icon). From there, scroll all the way down to the GitHub Page section and check if the Branch is set to "master" and the folder is set to "/docs".

3. Head back to the repository, click on the green button that saids "Code" and copy the HTTP link provided for you. It should look something like this https://github.com/USERNAME/USERNAME.github.io.git

4. In the Visual Studio Code, open the terminal and navigate to your desktop via terminal to ensure easier access. From there, you want to run this code: "git clone https://github.com/USERNAME/USERNAME.github.io.git". A folder called "USERNAME.github.io" will be created on your desktop that will contain the contents from your github.

5.  In your terminal console, navigate to "USERNAME.github.io" folder and execute jekyll by typing this command: "jekyll new docs". It will generate the appropriate files with the parent file being named "docs" to make your blogs and website accessible via jekyll. 

6. Navigate to your Gemfile through the visual studio by simply clicking on the docs directory and locating it. Ensure that line 10 and 15 are uncommented by removing the "#" in front. After removing the "#" from the respective lines, you can either "ctrl + s" or save the file for changes. 

7. After changing the Gemfile, navigate back to your "USERNAME.github.io" folder via terminal , run the command: "git status" to see whether all the files in your directory has been staged yet. Because this is your first time, the relative path should be in the color red. 

8. Next, run the command: "git add RELATIVE_PATH" where the RELATIVE_PATH is a placeholder for the relative path that the git status command has provided you with. Alternatively, you can run the command "git add ." to update/track all files for you to commit.

9. Run the command "git status". Because you ran the git add command, the relative path shown to you should now be green instead of red. This means that the files are now selected or track and ready to be commit.

10. Now, run the command: "git commit -m "MESSAGE"" where the MESSAGE  is a placeholder for any notes you want to add. It can be anything, but keep it relevant to what you're trying to save onto your repository.

11. Finally, run the command: "git push". this will upload all the files that were saved onto your Github repository. When you log onto github, you will see all your files from your USERNAME.github.io located in your repository. 

12. To create a post, through Visual Code Studio, simply navigate through the "_posts" directory and right click the directory to create a new file. NOTE: "It's in your best practice to name the file of your post "YYYY-MM-DD-FILENAME.md" and use "-" instead of spaces. Using spaces will and a different format of the filename will generate issues. In addition, ensure the beginning of every blog post has this in the beginning. I attached an external link below as a sample below:
https://gyazo.com/0a0e575bf0eec46f0e2eb5af66b53883

13. Save your file (ctrl + s or file > save). Repeat steps 7-11.

14. Go back to your repository settings. Scroll all the way down to the GitHub page section. There should be a url and that url is for you to access your blog post. You may need to open in a new window or browser for your blogs/posts to be updated because the browser cache takes a while for it to update.

Congratulations! You have created your first blog using Github. The hardest part is to set up your GitHub page with Jekyll. After setting it up, creating a blog is as simple as creating a new md file and running the three commands which are git add, git commit, and git push. Go have fun! 
