---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 17"
date:   2021-03-18 12:01:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

<h1><b>User Authentication</b></h1>

<h2><b>Introduction</b></h2>

<p>Hello everyone and I hope everyone enjoyed last weeks blog where I talked about Broken Authentication and Session Management as well as Cross Site Request Forgery. For this week's lesson, I want to go over one of the most misinterpret topics most amateur or beginning cyber specialist go through which is user authentication vs user authorization. While both of these subjects sound somewhat similar, they have completely different meaning and hold different prerequisites for users to achieve before acquirring them. In this tutorial, we'll mainly focus on user authentication as well as the characteristics and examples that go along with it. </p>
<p>User authentication or authentication is a process in which confirms a user's identity. There are many ways of confirming a user's identity, but there are three main categories which are used to identify an user which are knowledge, ownership, and inherence.
<dt>Knowledge</dt>
<dd>This is information that the user knows from the top of his/her head. This type of information can include: passwords, pin number, personal information.</dd>
<dt>Ownership</dt>
<dd>This item is something a user can have in which they can identify themselves. These items can include: ID cards, keycards, bank cards, passports.</dd>
<dt>Inherence</dt>
<dd>This type of identification is something a user inherits from births. These biometrics can include: fingerprint, voice, eyes, DNA.</dd>
While these are one of the many ways companies or users have use to protect their data and information, they're still vulnerable to being breached. The most secured way to perform user authentication is by encrypting passwords using some sort of hashing algorithm.
</p>

<h2><b>Password Hashing</b></h2>
<p>As you all know or those who don't know, companies do not store your password in plain text or they shouldn't store your password in plain text. It is a security issue if an attacker manage to get into the system and obtain their clients' data. The attacker would not have to go through the effort of finding the correct cryptographic hash function such as SHA-512 or MD5, the salt, and the type of encoding use to encode the hash to make it even more difficult. In 99% of practices, companies encrypted your password by combining your plain text password with the salt. A salt is random generated string. It will go through the Cyrptographic Hashing process in which it uses an one way hashing algorithm, typically SHA-512 or MD5, and turns it into a hash which is a string of random numbers, letters, and characters. The slower the hashing algorithm, the better. It'll provide a better defense against Brute Force Attacks. The hash will then be encoded to make it even more difficult for attackers to decipher. The only way how the system or companies identify you is when you enter the password is that it goes through the whole process again and compares the hash from the password you typed in to the hash that is stored into the system. If it matches, you're in. To make it even harder for attackers to decrypt and hijack your password is to include at least an uppercase letter, lowercase letter, numbers, and symbols.
</p>

<h2><b>Attack Mechanisms</b></h2>
<p>There are many types of attacks that attackers can use to hijack your credentials and acquire authentication to obtain personal information. One of the many types of attack mechanism is user enumeration. Have you ever log into a webpage and accidentally mistype your username and password, and the system tells you which information is incorrect? User enumeration is the proccess in which an attacker can develop a list of all valid username on a web server and can brute force their way by using the clues provided to them. This type of vulernability can be found on website that uses user authentication. Another type of attack mechanism is credential theft.
Credential theft is the process of an attacker stealing a victim's proof of identity. To obtain the victim's credentials, the attacker can use these malicious techniques to which are phishing, keylogging, and breaching a database. Phishing is when a fradulent attempt to obtain a victim's information by posing as an legitmate company. Keylogging is a malicious software in which the software records what the victim types onto his/her keyboard and sends it to the attacker. Data breaching is the act when the attacker breaches a companies' database to steal usernames and password hashes in hopes of accessing them later. There are other types of attacks such as Brute Force Attack and Dictionary Attack that goes well hand in hand. A Brute Force attack is when an attacker uses a software to rapidly input as many combinations of passwords until they get in. A dictionary attack is when the attacker mainly uses words from a dictionary and uses the many possible types of combinations to break them. It is similar to a Brute Force Attack with the only exception that it uses only words from the dictionary instead of random jumbled strings of characters.</p>
