---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 15"
date:   2021-02-21 12:01:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

<h1><b>Burpsuite Installtion</b></h1>

<h2><b>Introduction</b></h2>
<p>Hello all! As you all recall, last week's blog is about me exploiting websites that uses Indirect Object Referencing to access restricted information and retrieve keys from a website. I've figured that most of you are excited and anxious to learn how to use BurpSuite to exploit websites that are designed to challenge young hackers, like yourself, to exploit more than just IDOR vulnerabilities. I bet some of you guys tried to install Burpsuite, but were unable to do so because you guys received a certificate issue, but no fear! For today's tutorial, I'll be teaching you how to properly install Burpsuite, step by step, and utilize some of BurpSuite's functions to do so. BurpSuite is a web application attack tool that is mainly used for pen testing. It basically does what you want to as long as you know the many functions that are contained within the application. Using BurpSuite to scan and attack website is legal <strong>IF</strong> you are given permission; otherwise, it is <strong>ILLEGAL</strong> to use BurpSuite to attack websites without given permission from the proper owners. Anyways, installing BurpSuite is a simple task and I'll show all of you how easy it is right down below. Keep in mind, it is best to download everything using Mozilla Firefox as it makes life much more easier on all of you. With that said, let's begin! </p>

<h2><b>Requirements</b></h2>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/new/">Mozilla Firefox</a></li>
<li><a href="https://null-byte.wonderhowto.com/how-to/use-burp-foxyproxy-easily-switch-between-proxy-settings-0196630/">FoxyProxy Extension</a></li>
<li><a href="https://portswigger.net/burp/documentation/desktop/getting-started/proxy-setup/certificate/firefox">Burp's CA Certificate</a></li>
</ul>

<h2><b>Instructions</b></h2>
<ol>
<li>First thing first, if you have not installed the internet browser, Mozilla Firefox, yet; then, I suggest you do so at the download link above.</li><br>
<li>Next, you have two choices. We need to configure Firefox to configure traffic through Burp. You can either mess with your Browser settings or use the FoxyProxy extension (download link is above). If you install the FoxyProxy extension, you can follow the direction given to you to implement it when you click on the hyperlink in the Requirement section. However, if you choose to manually configure your Browser settings, I recommend using Google to figure out how to do it. I <strong>HIGHLY RECOMMEND</strong> to use FoxyProxy extension to direct traffic to Burp as the direction are clear and linear. In addition, its easier to switch between the platforms when a simple on and off feature, which can be toggle by a simple click of a button. Keep in mind when using FoxyProxy to proxy HTTP request to 127.0.0.1 port 8080. Because BurpSuite runs on Port 8080, it is in your best interest to remove any other servers occupying that port.</li><br>
<li>Once you configure your browser to run through BurpSuite, open the BurpSuite software. From there, go to Proxy -> Interecept. Turn off Intercept by clicking on the button. When Intercept is on, Burpsuite will prevent any outgoing traffic from leaving your PC. Basically, you will not be able to browse on the platform you are using.</li><br>
<li>Once you turn off the Intercept function on your Bursuite, it is time to configure your browser to trust Burpsuite by implementing BurpSuite's certificate. The link to the certificate is above in the Requirement section as well as the directions to implementing it onto your browser. Without the Burpsuite certificate, the software will not be able to snoop through HTTP trafffic.</li><br>
<li>Once you're done implmenting the Burp certiicate into your browser, you can now use BurpSuite. Just remember to switch it on when using BurpSuite or switching it off when you're not using BurpSuite. Congratulations! You can now see all the http request and responses, along with additional features on your BurpSuite.</li>
</ol>

<h2><b>Additional Information</b></h2>
<p>There are so many functionalities that come with Burpsuite that this blog will turn into an entire novel if I go over each and every single function that BurpSuite has to offer. Fortunately, I'll link all of you a guide about how to use BurpSuite properly <a href="https://portswigger.net/burp/documentation/desktop/penetration-testing">here</a>. Hopefully, if you spend a few hours going through the guides and documentation that portswigger has to offer, you'll know the basic concept of how to use each function in BurpSuite. Like I said before, you can practically do anything, in terms of pen testing, using BurpSuite. However, you must be responsible with that much power in your hands.</p>