---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 13"
date:   2021-02-02 12:01:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
<h1><b>My Experience of Building a New PC</b></h1>

<h2><b>Introduction</b></h2>
<p>Hello all! It has been a while since my previous blog, but I am back! Over the winter break, I went to do some research on computer parts to see if I can get my hands on the new NVIDIA 3000 series video card. Ultimately, I decided to build a new PC with the specifications revolving around the new NVIDIA 3000 series video card. I went to my local Microcenter store located in Tustin, California. Ever since I went to my local Microcenter store, I realized two things. The first thing I realized is that there is a large demand to purchase the new NVIDIA video cards. The second thing is, and I realized this a few days after my visit, I was fortunate enough to beat the huge wave of people and long lines in just days after my arrival. I was a little bummed out about not being able to obtain one of the new NVIDIA graphics cards, but I was fortunate enough to have one of the employees assist me with picking out the parts compatible with my new specification. I managed to snag one of the newest CPUs, THEAMD RYZEN 5 5600X, and a decent GPU, the AMD RADEON RX 5700 XT. Both of these units are hard to come by due to manufacturing issues and high demand from the public. The grand total to purchase all the computer parts required to build my PC is approximately $1600. This price tag may seem really hefty, but it really is not. Despite the downgrade in the GPU department, my new specification was about $300 cheaper than my original specification and performed beyond my expectations. Once I purchased all of the computer parts, I went home and started to build my new PC.
</p>

<h2><b>Specifications</b></h2>
<ul>
<li>TUF GAMING X570-PLUS</li>
<li>AMD RYZEN 5 5600x</li>
<li>AMD RADEON 5700 XT</li>
<li>Kraken X63</li>
<li>EVGA 750 Gold Plus</li>
<li>Samsung EVO Plus 970 1TB</li>
<li>Lian Li Lancool II Mesh RGB Full Tower Computer Case</li>
<li>G-Skill DDR4 16GB (total)</li>
</ul>

<h2><b>The Experience</b><h2>
<p>I have watched videos and tutorial about how people build their own PCs, but this would be my first time and first attempt at building one. I was a little nervous at first because I do not want to damage or accidentally short-circuit one of computer parts as each computer parts is quite expensive and I was on a tight budget. However, I managed to get some advice from my friends prior to building my PC which made the entire situation bearable and manageable. When I began building my PC, I quickly took out my CPU and secured it by immediately and carefully inserting it into the motherboard. I know that the AMD CPUs are quite different from the Intel CPUs. The AMD CPUs have its pins on the CPU itself instead of the pins being on the motherboard. Because the pins are on the CPUs, it is prone to being damaged or bent if it is being mishandled. After securing the CPU, I installed my Kraken X63 which is a liquid cooler. It was a simple installation. I had to remove the original prongs that were meant to hold onto the CPU stock fan and replace them with prongs that kept the Kraken X63 in place. Once the liquid cooler is installed onto the motherboard, I then screwed the motherboard onto the case. I made sure the screws were tight but not too tight to crack or damage the motherboard. Screwing the liquid cooler's fans onto the radiator and then screwing the entire radiation onto the ceiling of the case were pretty much simple to do. From there, I made a mistake of installing the radiator before connecting all of the corresponding pins from various computer parts to the motherboard because the radiator blocks the amount of space I need for my fingers to install the pins. As a result, I unscrewed the radiator and installed all the corresponding pins to the motherboard using the manual. The manual I had displays the entire blueprint of the motherboard and describe each socket. Using this information, I plugged in all the pins minus the RGB header and molex pins from the liquid cooler, power supply unit, the case, and case fans. Once all the pins are plugged into the motherboard, I screwed the radiator back to the ceiling of my case, insert the RAM and GPU by pressing the down a lever and sliding it in, and I was done. The moment of truth came when I closed my PC case, hooked it up to my monitor , and turn it on. Sure enough, the PC booted to the BIOS settings and I breathe a sign of relief. Most newbies would not have their PCs boot to their BIOS on their first attempt. However, I was skilled and careful enough to ensure that everything was screwed in, plugged in, and tighten properly. The entire process took about 6 hours in 2 days.
</p>

<h2><b>Technical Difficulties</b></h2>
<p>Although my PC has successfully booted to the BIOS setting in its first attempt, I did encounter a major issue after I have finished building my PC. When doing a specific task such as watching a stream on <a href="twitch.tv">twitch.tv</a> my pc would restart itself. At first, I thought it was a windows issues so I had a clean fresh install of Windows 10 onto my pc, but the problem kept on persisting. Eventually, I thought it may be a hardware issue issue; therefore, I did a hardware diagnostic to check if my temperatures were normal and whether or not my RAM were perfectly install, but there was no issue in regards to those hardware components. As a CIT major, I was struggling to find a solution to my issue. Fortunately, I was talking to one of my friends and he talked about how he mentioned about needing a USB drive to update his BIOS if he were to get a new PC to accomodate for the new CPU he was planning on getting. With that idea tucked in my mind, I decided to check whether the random restart would get logged onto my Event Viewer. Upon inspection, it did got logged as Window Event ID 41 which states that a hardware or software issue is causing the problem. I know, at least logically, that it was not a hardware problem because a hardware problem would mean my PC would restart randomly instead of restarting on a specific task. I debunked the idea of it being a Windows issue because I have a fresh clean installation of windows on my system. I looked up what can cause a Window Even ID 41 and an outdated BIOS is one of the many solutions provided. I checked the BIOS version and sure enough, the BIOS was out of date for my new CPU. The last time the BIOS was updated was around August 2020 and the AMD RYZEN 5 5600x came out in November 2020. I got my USB drive, downloaded the new BIOS files, and installed a new version of BIOS onto my PC. From there, I never had an issue of my PC restarting when I do these specific tasks. It was a huge sign of relief and accomplishment that I was able to resolve the issue without requiring any professional assistance.
</p>